draft v20.2.7 release notes (#10177)
cockroachdb/docs: releases/v20.2.7.md

---
title: What&#39;s New in v20.2.7
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v20.2.7 since version v20.2.6
---

> ## March 24, 2021

Reviewer: To update

- To upgrade to v20.2, see [Upgrade to CockroachDB v20.2](../v20.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html).

Get future release notes emailed to you:

{% include marketo.html %}

### Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.7.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.7.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.7.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.7.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" data-scope="windows">
{% include windows_warning.md %}
</section>

### Docker image

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.2.7
~~~

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Drop extra blank line

### SQL language changes

> - The following [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html) were added: 
>   - `sql.defaults.statement_timeout` controls the default value for the statement_timeout session setting.
>   - `sql.defaults.idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` controls the default value for the `idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` timeout setting.
>   - `sql.defaults.idle_in_session_timeout` already existed, but is now a public cluter setting. [#62185][#62185]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The following [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html) were added or changed: 
  - `sql.defaults.statement_timeout` was added to control the default value for the `statement_timeout` session setting.
  - `sql.defaults.idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` was added to control the default value for the `idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` timeout setting.
  - `sql.defaults.idle_in_session_timeout` is now a public cluster setting. [#62185][#62185]
```

One way to reconcile that two were added and one was changed. Also added backticks around a setting name and fixed a typo.

### Bug fixes

- Previously, [changefeeds](change-data-capture.html) were checking the `SELECT` privilege on every descriptor associated with targeted tables, including the database and custom types. They now only check `SELECT` on the targeted tables. [#61661][#61661]
- The names of custom types are no longer sent to Cockroach Labs in telemetry and crash reports. [#61645][#61645]

> - Fixed a bug where some import failures would cause tables to stay `OFFLINE`, when they should have been brought back to `PUBLIC`. [#61480][#61480]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where some import failures would cause tables to stay `OFFLINE` when they should have been brought back to `PUBLIC`. [#61480][#61480]
```

> - Fixed an npe observed with a `SpanFromContext` call in the stack trace. [#61703][#61703]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a runtime error observed with a `SpanFromContext` call in the stack trace. [#61703][#61703]
```

> - Exporting to userfile locations now works correctly. [#61789][#61789]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exporting data to userfile locations now works correctly. [#61789][#61789]
```

- The `indexdef` column in the `pg_indexes` table would always report that the index belonged to the public schema. Now it correctly reports user-defined schemas if necessary. [#61753][#61753]
- Previously, when using `SHOW`, the `idle_in_session_timeout` and `idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` settings would incorrectly display the value of the `statement_timeout` setting. This is now fixed. [#61958][#61958]

> - Fixed a bug where random numbers generated as default expressions during [`IMPORT`](import.html) would collide a few hundred rows apart from each other. [#61630][#61630]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where random numbers generated as default expressions during an [`IMPORT`](import.html) would be likely to match (collide with) other generated values in the same column. [#61630][#61630]
```

> - Previously, using [`EXPLAIN (OPT, ENV)`](explain.html) on a query that referenced a table in a user-defined schema would fail. This is now fixed. [#61890][#61890]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, using [`EXPLAIN (OPT, ENV)`](explain.html) would fail when used on a query that referenced a table in a user-defined schema. This is now fixed. [#61890][#61890]
```

> - Fixed a bug that caused `column does not exist` errors in specific cases of [`UPDATE..FROM`](update.html) statements. The error occurred when updating a `DECIMAL` column to a column in the `FROM` clause, and the column had a `CHECK` constraint or was referenced by a partial index predicate. [#61953][#61953]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that caused `column does not exist` errors in specific cases of [`UPDATE..FROM`](update.html) statements. The error occurred when updating a `DECIMAL` column to a column in the `FROM` clause where the column had a `CHECK` constraint or was referenced by a partial index predicate. [#61953][#61953]
```

- Fixed `command is too large` errors in some cases when using [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`](explain-analyze.html) or statement diagnostics on complex queries. [#61910][#61910]

> - Previously, the `target` column of `crdb_internal.zones` would show names without properly accounting for user-defined schemas. Now it does. [#62019][#62019]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, the `target` column of `crdb_internal.zones` would show names without properly accounting for user-defined schemas. This is now fixed. [#62019][#62019]
```

- Dropping and recreating a view/table/sequence in a transaction will now correctly error out if a conflicting object exists or if the drop is incomplete. [#62343][#62343]
- Fixed a bug that sometimes caused queries sent to a freshly restarted node to hang for a long time while the node caught up with replication. [#62204][#62204]

> - Previously, the `pg_type_is_visible` [builtin](functions-and-operators.html#built-in-functions) function did not correctly handle user-defined types. This is fixed now. [#62231][#62231]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously, the `pg_type_is_visible` [builtin](functions-and-operators.html#built-in-functions) function did not correctly handle user-defined types. This is now fixed. [#62231][#62231]
```

This just reads better to me.
